[Music]
[Applause]
i
[Music]
me
[Applause]
[Music]
me
[Applause]
[Music]
come
good
[Music]
[Applause]
me
[Music]
[Applause]
me
[Music]
good
[Applause]
[Music]
what did
[Applause]
[Music]
i
[Applause]
[Music]
me
[Applause]
[Music]
this is the third session in the
series of session that we are doing in
with abdul tankal to understand his
experiences
his time with mother the time that he
spent with mother his understanding in
sahaja yoga in today's session we'll
talk about his experiences after 2011
post the time when mother left her
physical body we'll talk about those
experiences and apart from that we'll
we'll understand
what exactly is meditation what exactly
how you
how you get into meditation we'll
understand certain points
so
so we'll start the session from here
mike if you can
put srimati's photo uh
start with
meditation session
thank you very much
maybe we can both put both the hands on
the ground
ask the mother earth
to absorb
all the
blockages on our chakras
all we have all what we have gathered
during the day
same time thanking her
for her generosity
for her abundant
abundantly she has given us a lot of
things fruits flowers
nature
and
kindly
create our
feet
to absorb
all which is disturbing us
certainly we can pray whatever
we want
the main
intention with the attention on the
hands
see how she absorbs the things
now you can put the left hand on the
left
hi
write and keep towards the mother earth
as we saw yogis we know what to pray
just keep our attention on
vibrations coming in from the left hand
and going out from the right hand
it's just like when we start a car
try to see the tire pressures
now you can put the right hand on the
right thigh
left hand towards the sky
again we observe what's happening within
us
a small
prayer mataji
allow us to evacuate everything in the
right side
for thinking planning tiredness
now you can
put the left hand
on the left thigh
ready to see mother kundalini
be kind enough
with whatever defects we have you play
at your lotus feet
we pray to you
to rise and take us
in the fourth dimension
let us
remain in the fourth dimension
with all the devotion
all the bhakti
will raise the kundalini with our right
hand
say very very slowly
then you put abandon slightly on the
vishuddhi
two three wonders
then on the sahasrara
and we take it out as if you are taking
out some things from our sahasrara
let them go
away
so we do it two more times
very slowly
raise our kundalini
on our vishuddhi we put some abandons
because
the thoughts rise from vishuddhi
where you go you go
then you put some bandhans on the chakra
we put some abundance on sahasrara
full devotion
and try to take out
everything which is blocking our
central channel
we
leave it our bow overhead do it the
third time
the same thing
and put our
palm of our right hand on the sahasrara
bend our head slightly in the front
move the scalp in the clockwise
direction
the please
establish the state of nirvikalpa
we can raise our hand
to feel the cool breeze coming out of
the
sahasrara take down our hand
and we try to keep our attention on
sahasrara where we had our hand
just now
remain in the state for some time
fully remembering
which matajis
and who we are
[Music]
now to end this small meditation
and just say once the third mantra of
sahasrara
[Music]
now we can slowly open the eyes
feel the thoughtlessness on our
the vibrations on the sahasrara
no thoughts
jewish being in the present
you shri mataji
so we can start this session
joshua
very nice session full of vibrations
very helpful in taking
a person into complete narvicharita thank you
so much uncle . By Shri Mataji’s grace
it was a very nice session
uh we'll start today's session
so uncle we have been doing sessions
wherein we are sharing uh
your experiences with mother
while she was there in physical form
today uncle i wanted to talk to you
about
your experiences
once mother had left her physical body
what exactly did you feel and what
exactly were your observations
uh how were the vibrations like after
that so uncle if you can just take us
through a little bit on that
and then if i have questions i'll keep
asking in between
yes
now
before we go in this
post 2011 era there are two three things
which
[Music]
escaped my attention last time
which i'll just quickly tell
in 1973 navratri
we had
nine days puja on the terrace of Shri Mataji’s
building
it was called jivan jyot
and
to
answer a question Shri Mataji once said
at that time
that even
a leaf on the earth to
move
the order has to come from here and she
pointed a
at her kundalini
so this is something which
i would like to share wanted to share
with you
secondly also there was a birthday pooja
and
a yogi went to
offer Shri Mataji a present
and Shri Mataji said no no i will not i will
not take
and
suddenly the
the yogi he closed his
eyes and within
few seconds Shri Mataji said okay i will
take the present
and she took the present
then i asked the yogi what did you say
if you can share it with me
so he said that i just closed my eyes
and
he said
Shri Mataji
let me i my desire be so pure
that you accept my small little present
and as i just said that in my heart
Shri Mataji immediately
accepted the present so whatever is
our pure desire our pure
uh
we can say desires or
intentions you can say
Shri Mataji accepts she does that
and last time we had seen one
another incident about where
Shri Mataji was talking about this
vortex
when people are very close to one person
and
when that person goes out what happens
the other is also
going down in that vortex
so in that respect i would like to just
narrate another
thing
about one mister Bhat obviously the name
is different
so when he came to sahaja yoga he was
a chainsmoker and charminar
you indians must be knowing is a very
very strong
cigarette
and he just left smoking
within a day (after his realisation)
and he was so happy and everything was
in sahaj
then there was another sahaja yogi
who
had
come to
sahaja yoga and he did some
some things which is
not correct
he was put out of sahaja yoga
now this fellow who had gone out of
sahaja yoga put out of sahaja yoga
had brought this mr bhatt  in sahaja
yoga so this mr bhatt had a little bit
of a soft corner for him
and then once
while coming
from office he said okay let me
go and
meet this yogi who has gone out of
sahaja yoga
and when he
went in he talked and when he came out
of the office he said okay let me just
see this mr bhatt said
if i can smoke again if i have that
and he smoked once
he started liking it
i smoked more and more
and
when Shri Mataji used to come
this mr bhatt was very close to us so he
told me please ask Shri Mataji to work on
my vishuddhi
so that
i will be cleaned
so i should used to tell Shri Mataji and She used
to clean him
and then he stopped smoking
this happened
two years
when Shri Mataji goes back he again
starts smoking
then the frequency increases
and in the third year i told Shri Mataji
he has again started smoking he has
asked me to
convey this to you. Then Shri Mataji
worked on him for one one and a half
hours
i still remember it was in this nilambar flat
This fellow (Mr Bhatt) was sitting at
the feet of Shri Mataji with his back
towards Shri Mataji  and She was working on his
vishuddhi
when she worked on
anybody's chakras she used to say aham
i am sri krishna aham Shri krishna
so i don't know the exact wording but
aham shri krishna
and she used to put this
uh
several times this sudarshan chakra on
his vishuddhi
and massaged it and really
worked very hard on him and then he was
cleansed forever
then he did not get this
feeling to go to smoke
then i went to him and i said what
happened to you why  do you smoke
what was the feeling he said i feel some
sort of a
catch in my  vishuddhi and it's coming
so strong
like strangling me
so when i smoke i feel good that time
this incident just to tell you
what shri mataji has told
in how to meditate 1976 mumbai
when people go out of sahaja yoga
do not have any connection with them
[Music]
i leave it to you
to
go through this talk this is a very very
good talk
how to meditate 1976.
there are some talks later on i can tell
you
which are really very very very good
like this one then there is the
necessity of meditation 1975 mumbai
then there is for shri ganesha also
there is a hindi talk 1988 ganesh puja
mumbai
76 gudhi padwa delhi
later on we can
we'll talk about it
so in that Shri Mataji says that
so
i leave it to you
go through the talk it’s in hindi and
translation is available
so coming to your
question
about 2011 after 2011
yes
i just wanted to interject
so the first experience that you shared
with Shri Mataji said that not even a
leaf moves without my
permission
so i just wanted to understand uncle
we we as youngsters we we work we go to
school colleges offices
so out there you know
we feel as if we are doing it uncle so
what is the correct emotion how should
we interpret this as yogies what should
be our dispersion towards our daily
routine our daily work
what should be the thought process or
how should we integrate ourselves uh or
integrate
mother's thought process with our daily
lives what would be your advice on that
particular thing
i wouldn't give any advice i can just
share experience what what have you done
to imbibe this let let's no
because this is something which is i've
gone through all those things
you know to
uh
what what you are telling about
not in your daily life
is not happening in the right way
so
when you meditate deeply
we are
feeling that sahasrara
and we will feel the vibrations on the
sahasrara
and
in one of the talks in mataji they said
how can we feel the vibration when he
keep the attention on sahasrara all the
time
and
we also
then
she
replied we have to just keep our
attention on attention « chittawar chitta » in Marathi
where is our attention going
so if you are
able to
do that
in our day-to-day life
like at this moment at this present
moment where is my attention my
attention is everywhere
but it is fixed here
the sahasrara
Shri Mataji gives that example of this
boy flying the kite
or this lady
you know this
all these ladies having
the water on the
head
all those things
we can put it into practice
because what happens is
if you have really good meditation that
meditation stays for quite some time
it's like a fan when the fan is moving
when you put  off
the current it still goes on moving
so in those situations
we can always see now where is my
attention this fellow is making me angry
now where is my attention
this is in called marathi called Abhyas
it's a study of your attention
and slowly and gradually
you can really be
detached with what you are doing about
the others
and they will also feel
that you are something different first
they will feel that it is different then
they will know that you are
having something which they do not have
they might
oppose you they might
uh
even make fun of you
[Music]
i'll tell you one example see france is
a
from mooladhara point of view very very bad
bad place
they used to make all sorts of dirty
jokes not only that but even
in the company where i was working
and i was just
you know laughing i mean i couldn't make
a face
but they knew that i did not sort of
like it
and once
our
technical director we were out for a
lunch
he said if there is one person in this
company we are not many we are 15
who is a saint it’s Avdhut
ah i said
why
i said
i remember i said did you drink too much
last night or just you drank and came
and you don't remember
so he said no no i am
i'm very serious
and this was a fellow who used to crack
all sorts of dirty jokes on everything
right from
the persons to the
gods and
everything
so you name it and he has got a dirty
joke on that but he he felt
that there is something different
the main thing is we don't get we should
not get involved and that happens in
that when you are in that meditative
state you do everything but your
attention could be on sahasrara
this is again a study it's a Abhyas
i don't know if i replied your question
Dushyant
thank you so much yes this is just i'm
sharing an experience
sure sure
so i'm moving ahead uncle so
i was just wondering uncle if you can
talk about a little bit about your
experiences
on vibratory front on certain problems
when certain experiences
post 2011 and post mother left her
physical body any experiences that you
would like to share with everyone
yes now
uh
with the awakening of the kundalini
shri mataji has awakened in us
we can call it detection instruments i
always given sort of a
an image detection instruments like we
have fire detector we have
uh
you know thief detector all those
detectors are there
so it's
these three detectors are within us
first is the kundalini
second are the vibrations
and third is the sahasrara
now
out of these
three
the sahasrara is the best
we'll see later on but if you are
feeling the vibrations on sahasrara
you can
be sure that
things will move in the right direction
now with for these experiences
in 2008 when Shri Mataji told about
these sahaja yogis we should be together
so we are some sahaja yogis
we share our experiences
and some of them i can share with you
like
one of these
sahaja yogis his son
wanted to get
[Music]
admission in second year masters first
year masters he had done
second year masters he
had
applied but he was waiting
and
suddenly he came
he sent all his papers and the
documents
but he was not called it was on monday
and he came and told his parents today
they are called for the interview for
the others
and
i was not called
so
the
[Music]
parents said okay at least go tomorrow
with the documents or whatever because
he had very good results
in this semester
so
he had good marks
and then he could not sleep the parents
either did not sleep
so in the morning when this fellow went
uh the father was very very much
disturbed
which is rather obvious because he
thought that if you are if he's not
getting admission
his whole career will be
spoiled
so
he just went in front of Shri Mataji he
told me later on
he said i did not put bandhan i did not
pray to Shri Mataji
i did not ask anything to Shri Mataji
i just went in the front of the photo
and just put my hands like this
and he said i just felt as very strong
vibrations coming from the photo
like a whirlwind
like a ouragan (cyclone)
and
it came and it settled on my sahasrara
like a crown a cold crown
and he went into meditation for quite
some time
and he realized that if he feels the
vibrations on the sahasrara
there will be no problem
and in few hours he was
he got an sms from this boy saying that
he has been
uh
allowed to go inside for the interview
and then went on quite well and finally
got  the admission
This is just to tell you that when we are
feeling anything on the sahasrara
we
uh we can be 100 per cent sure that
things will move in the right direction
now second example also was another
fellow
sahaja yogi his son was very very good
a good degree like iit in india
and he
he was working in a bank and then he lost
his job and then he was searching for
something really
uh
to his qualifications for one year he
did not get and then
he one day this son was telling
worst comes to worst i'll come home and all
that the father went felt a bit uh
a bit worried what's happening
and when he was just inside he just
immediately felt the sahasrara
vibrations on the sahasrara
so
this gave him the confirmation that he
will be in going in the right direction
and within about 15 days he got a very
good job another bank
went on very well
and it happened several times so when
you're feeling vibrations on the Sahasrara
so we will come to that later on this
point. Sahasrara is our 100 %
definite guarantee feeling the
vibrations on sahasrara
now
the
we can
also awaken our kundalini with our
attention
this is again there is some Abhyas (practice)
many of the people must have felt the
kundalini coming up when we
say the mantras
or when we are
we are in meditation
but this we can even do at all times
this Shri Mataji has shown in the different
public programs if you see
at the end of public programs at least
in the west she always does exist
like
this
so
she raises her kundalini
and she's also told
she takes all
all of us in her kundalini and raises
above
and if you are able to by some practice
able to do that
we can do that in any circumstances
now one of our this
group friends he was
put out of job they were uh
the company was about to close and
he said now in 15 days you will be out
of job
so he had known that
i can raise my kundalini
and he went to his desk and
just closed his eyes put his hand on the
desk and he raised his kundalini several
times several times
and suddenly all those thoughts
depressive thoughts about how i will get
the job
everything went
now when he came out of the
his
office
the other fellow said
you don't look very unhappy
did you understand what's going to
happen say yes yes
in 15 days we won't have a job so but
how is it that you are not feeling any
unhappiness
you don't look unhappy
so this is what happens if you are able
to
raise the kundalini with our attention
another thing was
these are the some experiences which are
real experiences which have been
felt by sahaja yogis
now he had to go for some public program
he had to talk and he had a very very
hard day in life
very
very insulting things happened against
him and he was quite
you can say depressed
he said okay now i have to go and talk
to people if i'm doing this in front of
the people people will not understand
and he did not even have time to go home
or foot soak or do anything
so he was in this train the metro
fully packed
he said okay now let me just raise my
kundalini and he raised it again and
again and again and again with his
attention
and do it with our eyes closed but you
can do it even with your eyes open
see like this
so once he went there and he all his
fatigue everything went away
and he spoke very well and people were
so
happy and the newcomers they were very
enamored and everything and
this fellow was feeling
some hours before what will happen
so these are the things which can do
with the
awakening the kundalini with attention
and now
this
Dushyant (interviewer) you were talking about this um
this question what you can do with our
attention
in our day-to-day life
now another thing which we can do
is to put a bandhan
all of us we know that we put a bandhan
on the hand
you can put a bandhan
but
this bandan when we put we should try to
see
to do it in uh
we should get a proof of what's going to
happen
like when you send a letter recorded
delivery
so this
i'm giving some images
recorded delivery so
when you put a bandhan
see how you feel inside
i remember a very
uh
very strong
case when i was with Shri Mataji in
Neelamber in 78
there was mr np godrej he is my father's
big boss
he was stabbed something like 16 times
in his stomach and all that
and this photo was there on the
on the
main page of times of india and Shri Mataji
when she saw she quite she put a bandhan
just put a bandhan like this
Her bandhan is very very different than
ours
and
in some days he recovered this
np godrej
and
they were quite
quite
surprised how it happened but Shri Mataji
had
put a bandhan
another thing is
we should not
put it mechanically like some person
they're talking to others no when
for example
when i have to put a bandhan for anybody i
go in the front of Shri Mataji
if there is no light put a light
Shri Mataji
this mister so and so is having some
problem
can you please look after it
we don't put any condition again
you should tell Shri Mataji
he's in distress he has got some
problems
and i am putting these problems at your
lotus feet
if you think
it correct
you can
solve it
and
when you put a bandhan done very slowly
sometimes you can feel the
vibrations on the sahasrara
like a clock watch
your
small watch you
move the the small
knob
and the hand of the clock
they move
the same way you can feel
now
when you put a bandhan sometimes you can
immediately feel the kundalini coming up
that's it no problem
we feel it on the sahasrara that's the
best
if you feel the vibrations on the
sahasrara things can
never go wrong
sometime before one of us he had a
email from some  lady
and she said my father is in hospital
he was aged
and can you put a bandhan for him
so he just said oh don't worry i'll put
a bandhan and then everything will be
all right
but when I put a bandhan
no vibrations
he put and put and put no vibrations
so
he immediately told
her
just
put on Shri Mataji's feet
be detached she knows what's best for
you your father
and in about an hour
he expired
but then he put a bandhan this yogi for
her
so that she
[Music]
gets over the shock
so
and avoid as far as possible to put
bandhans for your own personal use
unless of course
it's very
very disturbing and very
much serious
you can just
try to tell Shri Mataji and you can
feel the
reply in your hands without putting a
bandhan because bandhan is
something which is
very
holy as Shri Mataji said these are very
primordial movements
and we should not
use them for
small things especially not very
personal things
she knows what is troubling us
so you can just put bandhan to
collective thing yes
to other persons yes
but not fully every time putting a
bandhan and once you put a bandhan
try to forget about it
put a nice bandhan
and then leave it to shri mataji
in mahakali puja 82 Lonavala Shri Mataji said
if it's not in your attention it is in
my attention
if it deserves my attention i will
definitely look after it this is an
assurance not a guarantee these are
almost the same words
so
this is about putting a bandhan
can can you show how to put a bandhan
properly once. no no you see
as
Shri Mataji has shown it you see in
christmas puja
84 in uk she shows just put a bandhan like
this just put a bandhan like this
okay there is nothing special our bandhan
is the same it's not that. it's
your attitude your your detachment like
very recently one
of a very good friend of ours not sahaja
yogi but she had received her realisation
she was in icu
he said okay we'll put a bandhan no
vibrations
then I told Shri Mataji please
let me be detached from this
this
this problem
when i was putting slowly and gradually
the vibration started coming in
the kundalini rose and then filled it on
the sahasrara
then i wrote to them that
it'll be all right
and in
maybe a week or something she came out
of the icu
tomorrow she's going home so this can
happen so there is no hard and fast rule
it's more
what you feel inside what you are what
are your
feelings
uh so that detachment should be there
i did answer your question
yes yes uncle thank you so much thank
you so much there is no hard and fast
yes yes correct
uh uncle i just wanted to speak to you
you were talking about you know feel
inside
and
feel from your sahasrara what are you feeling
inside what kind of vibrations you're
getting
any experience that you would like to
share on you know where the kundalini
actually gives you indication of
yes what is happening or how things are
going to pan out
okay if I start speaking maybe we will pass
uh the whole night like this but doesn't
matter i'll give you a couple of
experiences
of our group
now one fellow was
uh
meditating
and
at that time
there was a sahaja yogi uh
or a leader of that
country so this yogi was meditating he
was always thinking something about
this yogi the leader
not in the good terms
so
he
um
a half an hour 35 minutes maybe 40
minutes he
said i have no vibrations and cannot be
thoughtless
then as they say the « dukan band karo » in hindi it means
close the shop just put a bandhan and
just get up
and then he just
had a good thought and i had a thought
if this fellow comes now
knocking on the door what will be your
reaction
and as soon as
he had this thought he said oh i will
open the door and i hug him as a brother
and as soon as he as soon as he thought
of this the same time the kundalini is
shot up like anything
he had vibrations on the sahasrara on
his hands
and when he looked at Shri Mataji  the
photo
Shri Mataji  was as if telling see
love is the only way
so
it's
Shri Mataji has told in
many talks Shri Mataji  talks of love
many talks i remember sahasrara day puja
She said love is the most powerful thing
most powerful thing
sometimes could be
you could feel
how it can happen but
second experience is one of the sahaja
yogis wanted to go to a seminar and he
had to
he had to give a little bit talk on
some subject
and
it was a three-hour drive
he had vertigo problems
so the yogis they said no we will put a
bandhan and all
but still it was
less but still there
and he said okay at least
[Music]
uh
my wife can drive
but then his wife last minute she had a
very strong
infection of the throat so she could not
come
but he told me that every time he
thought of the seminar his kundalini
rose up
he thought of this
that i have to talk his kundalini rose up and
he was very confident from inside and
very calm peaceful
from inside
that
things will go in the right
direction and it did
it did
it was very very good
Shri Mataji
did it i must say
because what happens is when the
kundalini rises and it goes and settles
in the sahasrara
we are sort of
taken care of by Shri Mataji by the vibrations
and when that happens
we feel that whatever is happening for
me
it's Shri Mataji  wants it to happen
even if it feel bad i give a small
example quickly
when fellow sahaja yogi was
having a lung infection
rather serious
and he called Shri Mataji  she said don't
worry i will send some kerosene from
australia
and
put some kerosene on the lungs
yeah
and she said no but you take care of
everything do what is necessary
then it went off
rather quickly than
normal
and then Shri Mataji told him because your father
was very strict during your
young age
and that was
pressing on your heart and because of
this it has
gone out so what i am trying to say is
even if something bad happens there is
always something good
because Shri Mataji said
in october 85 in Strasbourg
that your
life is chiseled all the sahaja yogis
their life is chiseled out
so whatever happens to me
is because Shri Mataji  wants it to happen
and whatever she wants  to happen
for me
is for my spiritual good
not for my money or other things good no
spiritual good
so once that is there we feel
uh completely detached we are in a
witness state we say okay let's see
what's happening let's see what's
happening we are like a cinema drama
going on in our real life
because we know that it’s Shri Mataji  is doing
it i'm not doing anything
and once that happens
we feel peaceful
we are not worried we are not perturbed
Shri Mataji  talks about it in sahaja yoga
1999 which we feel peaceful
this is something which
we can feel it in our
Sahasrara when the kundalini comes up and we feel
uncle we spoke about uh
giving uh
we spoke about a lot of things kundalini
giving indication putting bandhan on
hand
awakening kundalini with attention
uh would you like to discuss uh certain
items that sahaja yogi should always
take care of
while going out or while meeting with
someone or going to work or something
like that
yes
again in this talk
the
uh
how to meditate 76 mumbai
Shri Mataji  has told a lot of things and
one of them was before we go out we
should put a bandhan
and
dushyant it was your brother animesh you told me
that when we put this bandhan
we should take out our shoes
i remember that
yeah like a long time
back and then
yes
so when we put a bandhan we put it very
slowly
during covid
i also put a double bandan on this you put
a bandhan like this seven times
raise the kundalini and again put
a bandhan
and when you do it slowly  you can
even sometimes feel the sahasrara
now
when you are putting this bandhan
you try to feel it on your hands
the left hand is free you can see
you can feel it also on the sahasrara
yesterday i had something very
uh important thing to do after going out and i put a
bandhan and i felt it from the sahasrara
i just went in front of Shri Mataji  and
i felt immediately the vibrations on
the sahasrara
so if you are feeling this on the
sahasrara things will move in the right
directions
now
many people they put a bandhan like this
i remember
as you put a wiper (of a car)
or if there are lots of mosquitoes you
have to we are taking them out no
you have to put it very very slowly
and
if you are doing that, many times it
happened to many of us
that
you will suddenly remember something
which you have forgotten i have to take
my
i don't know car keys or
this document I have not taken
you know very slowly
okay
and secondly also which i would like to
share
which happened with us
that
after putting a bandhan just put the hands
like this
if the vibrations are correct in both
the hands
fantastic
but sometimes you can feel some catches
i
would not like to go in all the catches
but especially if you are having the
right agnya catch
you can be quite sure that the
there will be some agnya problems
in the work
also if for example
if you feel the left nabhi catch
you can
be sure that is going to be quite hectic
the job the day
and sometimes if you feel lot of vibrations
means your boss is going to
uh give you a promotion
just joking but so this
putting bandhan  while going out
we
can really literally know
how the day is going to be
there are also some of the
things which i would like to just share
quickly
uh when we were there with Shri Mataji
she told Raul bai to put dhoop
in the house every day
dhoop is this benjoin
on the charcoal uh
burnt charcoal
so she used to put every day every
evening
and i remember once Shri Mataji had come to
strasbourg i put (this dhoop) and
i went to
Her room
and i said i want to put this dhoop
She said yes you can come in
and i put it
behind Her like this
so if we are putting this later on i
learnt that if you are
putting little bit camphor in it and
also the ajwain
that helps a lot for improving the
vibrations
so those things we can
do also
to increase the vibrations
also putting ice on the liver we know
all this
also when you are doing the meditation
see that your head does not fall down
if you are feeling sleepy
better to wash your face
but
these are very very small things but
sometimes
[Music]
you know people can
miss it i remember a very
aged sahaja yogi
and he was um with me and his head had
fallen down
and after the meditation said i had such
a lovely meditation i said
excuse me but
your head had fallen down so it was a
little bit
maybe sleepy
and during the
meditation we don't do any
[Music]
movements learn not do lot of movements
regularly try to clean the photo with
rose water
and
wipe the photos
i still remember once this locket
i had it in my finger
and i used to feel agnya chakra so i went
to Shri Mataji
and i said i feel agnya chakra. She said
what is this ring ? I said Shri Mataji
it's your ring
she told me but you put it here but do
you
uh
worship it every day do you put kumkum do
you put
uh wipe it or you're just putting it for
show decoration
so if you are not able to do that
better not
put it
now recently we had this one seminar in
Cabella
it was called nirmaldhyana
it's an e-booklet
i can give you the
link later on
remind me
this is a part of 100th birthday of
Shri Mataji
and in that Shri Mataji is
there's a lot of talks you have to just
click on the talk and the
excerpts
come out
the videos
so in that Shri Mataji talks about also
at the end
about the lockets and the
photos which you
put
so it is just a
little bit i'm going out
which helped us a lot
vibrations are good so i think
we can go out a little if required
yes
so uncle moving ahead
[Music]
you spoke about your past experiences
you've spoken about your current
experiences
so
now uncle uh i just wanted to understand
uh
how exactly should we interpret
meditation
how to understand
i do not know if i told you last time or
even before
adi shakti came on the earth
to uplift the human beings
to give them a higher status
and this
incarnation which
physically had come
is very difficult to
to realize
those beautiful moments which
we spend with her
i would use the word realize
should realize Shri Mataji
the only way
we can realize Shri Mataji is through our
bhakti our
devotion
and our complete surrender Shri Mataji had
had told us time and again
be careful I am mahamaya she had given us
the rules of the game
but still many of us
they
slipped out
unfortunately
now
let's see
like
why you should meditate because in the
meditative state itself we can feel her
presence not by reading
or by doing anything else
so
why should we
meditate how should we meditate
what are the effects what happens inside
physically and then what are the after
effects of meditation
so just very quickly
with Shri Mataji's permission
i'm sharing some
experiences
these are
my points of view
which i do not want to
impose on anybody
just sharing them
next time we will
just
the fourth
session will be more
only in meditation
and
we will first see
why should we meditate
what is the reason to meditate
there are videos which we can see which
you can follow
so i think so i will
not talk a more on that
you were sharing certain point of views
uncle you just suggested
yes
about this
how to meditate
yes uncle let's go ahead
yes now uh
basically there is in sahaja yoga there
is no
uh
hard and fast rules
there are no uh rules how you should
meditate
the
main thing is as i told you just now is
our
whole attire whole
feeling
in this meditation
and when we are doing this meditation
there are some aspects
some parameters we can say which we have
to
take it into
account
before we meditate
so
i was telling about how to meditate
there is no hard and fast rule
uh but when we meditate we
we say them prayers we say
the mantras we sing
the bhajans
let me just
uh
tell you some definitions which
Shri Mataji has given which are very
important
it really marked me very much
first is
the bhakti. Bhakti is devotion
now on the 30th of march 1990
Shri Mataji gave a very good talk
« teen yuktiyaan » means three tricks
to progress in sahaja yoga it is in
delhi
its public program after the birthday
puja celebrations
and
Shri Mataji
gives a definition of what is ananya bhakti
as we all know ananya  is
not the other no duality
that we are
we are one with her we are one with her
cosmic body
then she says that when you are in
ananya bhakti
you should see what i see
you should work as i work
and and then she says that you should
love others as you love me
that's ananyaka bhakti she's given i think so
the only time when she has talked of
ananya bhakti
so this is one aspect which we have to
remember
now another aspect is
a broad definition of bhakti
now bhakti we know his prayers, singing
bhajans but
we can go ahead with this
in our day-to-day life in our
attire in our behavior
we always have to remember that i am the
son i am the daughter of adi shakti
and how should i behave how should i
behave in such a way
that my mother will not be
unhappy with me
she will not be
displeased with me
i have to keep her pleased
sometimes somebody said jokingly you
keep mother pleased and she will keep you
pleased
so it's it's like this you keep her
pleased in all your
day-to-day activities have you ever
experienced this uncle
you please mother and mother took care
of you
yes very much i
can't
i don't know how to start and where to
end but really i'm telling you all those
things
again is my own experience
now about mantras
it's Easter puja rome 1987 i quote Shri Mataji
vienna
she says mantra it is that power of the
word that expresses the spirit
a mantra is nothing but a thought which
is vibrated
for the definition of prayers she has
given in navratri puja 89 uk
[Music]
and she says it is not how many words
you use for a prayer but it is how
deeply you have touched the feet of the
divine that is important
and also she gives us
the importance of dharma
30 december 79
mumbai
she says it is not how many times you
meditate how many times you sit in water
use my photograph
or what you do all these rituals it is
not that
it is how much dharma is within your
heart
is a very big
thing which we have to
really
understand we know what is dharma in
sahaja yoga
we are members of Vishwa Nirmala Dharma
so that purity and that
holiness
that
saintliness we can say
should be imbibed in our day-to-day
life
now
if i continue
i guess
now in
yes
uh you just mentioned a particular thing
that the holiness should be imbibed into
a daily life now how does this happen
so uh
during the day-to-day life it so happens
that you know you tend to get engrossed
into so many things so
how do you maintain that holiness
all across the day
because there is a uh again birthday
puja public program it's in hindi i don't know
why it is always in delhi
but  Shri Mataji gives
29 march 1986
a very very beautiful talk in hindi but
translation is available
so in that Shri Mataji gives a lot of
hints a lot of things
which
helps us
to understand what Shri Mataji wants us to
be Shri Mataji says tomorrow such people will
be in sahaja yoga who have kindness
forgiveness and peacefulness
also she gives a very important
indication of
the importance of thoughtlessness i i
would like to quote her
she says entertainment is not forbidden
in sahaja yoga but the entertainment
should be such that it establishes
thoughtless awareness
lecture should be such that it
establishes thoughtless
awareness in you
mantras
should be recited in a way so that
thoughtless
awareness establishes within you
then the meditation should be such that
it should establish thoughtless
awareness within you
so these are some of the things
and in another talk where Shri Mataji
says you have to learn to love yourself
16 february 86 new delhi again
hindi
she says
you are not only in my heart
but you are the blood cells flowing
in my veins
should always remember i am moving in
the entire body
so how should i be so that my mother is
not troubled
and she says that if i do not have any
problems then the problems of the entire
universe also goes away
such a big thing
and then she says
but we should not only believe that you
touch mother's feet we gave
offerings to mother
we gave flowers to mother no
you should become the garland around my
neck you should become not the garland
you become the garland around my neck
you become my garland
then i will accept that you believe in
me
it is so much
i leave you to
listen to it
or go through the translation
it really
moved me so much
that any thought any
thing happens with me
is aware of it
even before
i know what's going to happen
she knows why it's happening
and she knows what's going to happen
later on
as i told you some experiences about my
mother
what my father also she told when he
left away
and she said that i took his atma in my
body
after your phone call
he said
let me go away now
i will come back again she said
he will come
amongst you amongst the
sahaja yogis
so these are the things which
though very
difficult to understand
mentally
if she's the adi shakti
she can do anything everything
our only thing is we have to try to
become try to become
good instruments
what a wonderful session
yes you know uncle i think we should end
here
i'll ask
we should do a small meditation session
in end here and then continue with the
next session occur so the next section
would be fully focused on uh
on the questions pertaining to
meditation
okay
so we'll have a recap of this particular
session again
it does not get mixed
okay okay
i think so the best way
for us
so just put our attention on the
sahasrara
and we feel our her presence
with your infinite love you have come on
this earth
chosen me
as your child
all my drawbacks
normal limitations
i just humbly
surrender myself
your lotus feet
not only under earnestly ask you
create your lotus feet
to allow me to be in your company
forever
so that i am
continuously nourished by you
through my sahasrara
so if you can just keep
in silent silent meditation for some
time
can using the three maha mantras please
[Music]
my
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
i
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]
the
i
[Music]
grades it was a wonderful session uncle
today lots and lots of vibrations
and uh it was great listening to your
experiences and
and anecdotes that you shared on
on various
things so to everyone who's listening
today this is a series of sessions which
is going on we have done two sessions
before this session one and two
links for the same are available in the
description in case you would like to
listen to them
and
we will have another session the fourth
session that particular session would
primarily focus on
what is what is meditation how should
one do meditation
uh what are the key things that as a
yogi that we should take care of
what exactly is
expected out of us
in case we are a yogi
so we would uh we would be circulating
the link for the same shortly
uh uncle with this we would like to end
today's session like to thank mother
uh
for for making this session possible we
wanted to thank you for being a part of
this
so
with this uncle we would end today's
session
thank you thank you
yes
you